
Re: Linux requirements for Ole Nielsen (Urban Risk Research Group)
------------------------------------------------------------------

Background:
  The aims of the riskmodelling group is to develop modelling software 
  for disasters, vulnerability, exposure and risk. These tools are to be used 
  in risk research and for decision support both within the group and 
  externally. One of our requirements to meet these goals is to have 
  access to a Linux environment for the following reasons:

  1: Linux has proven to be an extremely stable development platform,
     it is very well supported and it runs on inexpensive off-the-shelf PCs.

  2: Software used with Linux is Open-Source and hence free. 
     It is also of high quality because of the large 
     community supporting and validating it.
     This allows flexibility in the choice of software development 
     tools.
  
  3: Linux platforms can provide services to our group 
     such as the ability to compile and run software developed for Unix and 
     revision control, which will improve the group’s configuration processes.  
   
  4: A Linux environment is necessary for an in-house Beowulf-style parallel
     cluster for high performance computing.    
     
  5: Maintaining Linux expertise within GA would mean that if in the future
     Linux is to be used more extensively GA could rapidly adapt to this change.

  6: Our software should be platform independent.  Therefore we need access to 
     both Windows and Unix platforms. A Linux box provides such an up-to-date and 
     standardised Unix platform.

     
Hardware requirements:
  The group of software developers needs one standard PC with a static 
  IP-address to support in-house software development.
  
  
Software and Support requirements:
  None  


Maintenance:    
  As the system is installed and maintained locally, in order to 
  fully utilise the potential, at least one member needs full administrator rights.
  IT will also have those rights and will be able to audit the system 
  in order to ensure that proper security practices are in place and that
  the system fits in with the corporate structure.


Security issues:
  1: The Linux system will operate behind the corporate firewall along with
     other personal computers.
     
  2: All software installed on the Linux desktop will be in accordance 
     with legal, appropriate and ethical practices. 
     
  3: The Linux system will be configured to be secure. I.e no guest 
     accounts, anonymous ftp or external root login will be allowed,
     only strictly necessary services will run and security patches will 
     be installed frequently.
  
Deliveries and benefits to the riskmodelling project:
  The deliveries and the benefits to the riskmodelling project include:
  
  1: A stable and efficient development platform for software developers.
     Codes can be ported between platforms and functionality 
     continually tested.
  
  2: Ability for members to compile and run Unix specific codes locally.
     There is an abundance of sophisticated research models written 
     for the Linux/Unix environment which can be utilised by staff members. 
  
  3: Revision control for code development, documentation and administration files.
     
  4: Experience with Linux systems will feed back into the organisation 
     in cases where other systems such as a Beowulf or other local 
     Linux servers need to be built.
 
  5: Savings on software costs. Many packages used within the group
     come at a cost for Windows but are free for Linux. An example is the 
     Dislin graphics package for Fortran.     
	   
	   

  




  

